# Entrepreneurship

## Definition: The **intentional pursuit of opportunity**, without regard to **resources controlled**, with the goal of providing new or improving existing products or services that are of value for customers for a profit or social benefit.

---

# Types of Entrepreneurs

- **Builder:** (scalable firms, high-growth, ie. Steve Jobs)
- **Opportunity:** (get rich quick, great in sales, optimistic, ie. Wolf of Wall Street)
- **Specialist:** (experts, technical, risk averse, poor salesmen, ie. Bill Gates)
- **Innovator:** (mission driven, game changers, poor leaders, ie. Mark "The Zuck" Zuckerberg)

# Entrepreneurial Mindset

## Managers vs. Entrepreneurs

### Manager

- **FOCUS:** Maintain Status-Quo / Order (Policies, Targets, Forecasts, etc)
- **IMPLEMENTING:** Heavily Resource Dependent; Linear; Controls (needs budgets, people, collateral, etc)
- **GOVERNANCE:** Rules / Compliance Focused (means rather than ends)
- **LOCUS OF CONTROL:** External (seeks directions from boss)
- **DECISION MAKING:** Data Driven past results, competition, market analysis, etc. (few biases and mistakes)
- **AUTHORITY:** Use of Positional Authority / Hierarchy for getting things done
  - > "I Want this report on my table today"
- **RISK TAKING:** Limited Appetite, Prefer to avoid risk altogether
- **ORGANIZATIONAL VIEW:** Limited but sees with clarity
- **INTERPERSONAL:** Result Driven
  - > "Show me and I will believe"
- **COMMUNICATION:** Facts and

### Entrepreneur

- **Change Status-Quo / Disrupt** (Create new products, services, rues, markets, alliances, etc)
- **Resource Independent; Lean & Flexible; Delegation** (thrives under resource constraints)
- **Internal** (self-motivated, ego, and passion driven)
- **Intuition Driven** some data, but largely driven by vision / passion / intuition.
- **Use of Personal Power / Influence** to get things done - minimal use of positional authority
  - > "I need your help with this report"
- **Comfortable with Risk & Uncertainty**
- **Sees the Big Picture,** but often through colored lenses (ie. cognitive biases)
- **Trust Driven**
  - > "I believe in you and trust you will not let me down"
- **Story Telling Approach**

# The Managerial Storyline

- **Management** is largely a linear & scientific skill born of replication of past successes and avoiding past mistakes. Likelihood of big failure or big success are minimal.

- **Entrepreneurship** is more non-linear & unscientific social skill that involves a complex mix of **passion** for change, innate genetic abilities, rich personal experiences, and gaining expertise by deliberate practice (10,000+ hours); that involves doing, failing, and trying again and again. Likelihood of big failure and big success are high.

# How can you Develop an Entrepreneurial Mindset?

- **Welcome New Challenges and Failure** by going outside your comfort zone - that is where effective learning takes place.
- **Accept Risk, Ambiguity, & Uncertainty** as givens... learn to work with and take advantage of them
- **Delayed Gratification**... it takes approx 10k hours of practice to gain expertise
- **Lifelong learning** (and improving)
- **Learning** by Doing (tinkering)
- **Welcome Diversity** in all its form (people, places, cultures)
- **Engaging** with issues and digger deeper
- Developing **Empathy & Respect** (even with people you do not know or work with)
- **Disrupt Routine** (go off the grid; no devices)
- Keep working on enhancing **Communication Skills**
- **Seek Mentors** who are entrepreneurs; create a personal Board of Advisors
- Learn to **SELL** a product, service, or an idea using the art of **"STORY TELLING"**
- Build a **"PERSONAL BRAND"** - Who are you and why should people care? (leverage social media)
- Building, Maintaining, & Growing **High-Trust Relationships** (real, not just virtual)
